
Question 1
==========

#### Kernel
A kernel is a concept in linear algebra that denotes a matrix that when multiplied by a given matrix equals the zero matrix or zero vector. This is an important concept in Computer Graphics as it is the root for complex image analysis where it is necessary to generate null space in order to analyze specific parts of an image. One example might be examining vertical or horizontal edges in the image.  

#### Contrast
Contrast ultimately makes lines in an image distinguishable from one other by increasing the difference in color between sections in an image. By greatening the gap in color similarity between two sections, the sections become more distinguishable to the human eye.

#### Tone
Tone is the overall color of an image. It is often discussed when looking at how "warm" or "cold" an image is. Warm meaning a yellow / orange color and cold meaning a more blue color.

#### Metric Space
A metrics space is a theoretical concept that gives a non-negative distance between all combinations (x, y) of points in a set. d(x, x) will always be 0, and d(x, y) will always be a non-negative real number. This is an important concept for something like ray tracing where it is crucial to be able to compute rays from any two pixels or surfaces in the image. 

#### Convolution
A way to map function x onto function y. A convolution is not a final result but a way to map another function onto an input to obtain a result. A good example of this is a blurring function which is a convolution between the function and a given image.
